---
starred: false
title: ''
datePublished: '2016-07-22T18:21:22.051Z'
dateModified: null
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-07-22-9404ffbe-42af-452b-85b5-86fdc77fe3f1.md
inFeed: true
hasPage: false
inNav: false
_type: MediaObject

---
Comparing BigCommerce vs Shopify

BigCommerce vs Shopify: The Ultimate Comparison  
Home » Ecommerce Comparisons » BigCommerce vs Shopify: The Ultimate Comparison  
Catalin Zorzini January 24, 2016 4 Comments  
bigcommerce vs shopify  
So, you've decided to start an online business. You've decided on idea for a product niche, you've done some research into the logistics of where you'll source your products, you've found a logistics company like United Van Lines to transport your goods, you've done some market research into who the typical buyers are for your products, and you've looked at competitive options. With that, all the hard work is done right? Well it might not be. You still have to build your website.

You may also be interested in these articles:  
Shopify vs. BigCommerce -- Ecommerce Platform Comparison  
Shopify vs. Volusion -- Ecommerce Platform Comparison  
Shopify vs. Magento Community Edition -- Ecommerce Platform Comparison  
So now you'll probably want to know what options are out there. The great news is these days aspiring online entrepreneurs when it comes to ecommerce platforms there are tons of options. The bad news is there are tons of options.

So What Are My Options?

The first thing you'll want to decide is if you want to go with a hosted software as a service type of platform, or a self hosted solution that requires you to also deal with the logistics of sourcing our own servers and infrastructure.

For the sake of simplicity and speed, I usually advise people to go with the former.

Now that makes things a bit easier, in the world of hosted SaaS ecommerce platforms, today there are really two platforms that stand out above the rest in terms of ease of use, features, and flexibility: BigCommerce vs Shopify.

BigCommerce vs Shopify: Background info

Shopify was founded in 2006 with their headquarters in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Today, they have become one of the fastest growing companies in the world (no surprise given the growth of ecommerce as a whole) and they claim to host over 120,000 online retailers, with more added each day. They have raised over $100 Million of investor money to fuel their growth and there are even rumors they'll be pursuing an IPO in the near future.

BigCommerce is a slightly newer platform having been founded in 2009 originally from Sydney, Australia but now with a corporate headquarters in Austin, Texas (although Australia remains where the majority of their workforce resides). The company is also on a similarly meteoric growth trajectory as Shopify and has in total raised $75 Millions to fuel their own growth. To date, they have well over 55,000 stores using the platform globally.

The great news is both company's are growing for good reason. They have great products, great support and robust ecosystems of partners and developers. As an ecommerce entrepreneur you really can't go wrong with either choice. But there are some subtle differences.

So, let's take a closer look at how the two compare.

Shopify

Design and User Experience

Shopify prides themselves in their focus on design. This is reflected both in the user experience of the platform itself as well as in their very robust themes library. The Shopify user experience is very similar to other content management systems, namely WordPress, so most users who have some familiarity with user web based tools should feel right at home.

Users then have the option to build their stores around custom themes they can piece together, or use one of the free built in themes with the platform. Shopify themes are mostly designed by third party designers, and they are numerous. One of the big strengths of the Shopify platform is the ecosystem they've built around themselves; this includes designers, and developers. While many themes are free, there are also many premium themes available for the platform that typically range from $80 to $200 and are usually a single one time fee.

Additional Tools

The Shopify platform comes with all of the tools necessary to do all the basic tasks required of a store: manage inventory, showcase products, set prices and taxes, configuring shipping details, etc...

But if there are any additional features a shopkeeper is looking for, from more advanced marketing functions to seo tools to data and analytics tools, Shopify has done a great job of building out their App Store. The Shopify App Store today houses over 500 apps developed both in house and by third party developers that can help users add almost every function under the sun to their stores.

Pricing

Shopify has four levels of monthly subscriptions: Basic ($29/month), Professional ($79/month), Unlimited ($179/month) and a new unpublished pricing tier they've called Plus, for enterprise class clients.